hey how's it going Dave 2d here and this
is the Acer nitro 5 now this is a laptop
that's geared towards that whole
inexpensive gaming market it's 900 bucks
it's got a GTX 1050 TI 256 gigs of SSD
and a KB Lake chip in here I mean
there's a lot of stuff that I like about
this thing but if you'll notice the
title of this video I don't openly
recommend this thing to everybody and
the reason why is because I feel like
there's a better option than this for
people who are actually interested in
this and it's not because this is a bad
laptop this is actually a very good
laptop but as you'll see there's
something a little bit better than this
so the things that I do like about it
first I really like the build quality
this thing looks less gamer I should say
than the average cheap gaming laptop so
it has a red strip down here but it's
not that bright cherry red is more like
a muted metallic burgundy color it's
still red it's not my favorite thing but
I think it's a lot better than a lot of
gaming laptops and everything else on
the top at least is black even that logo
the Acer logo is just simple black and
the components they've chosen in here
are good the 1050 Ti is that sweet spot
for inexpensive 1080p gaming the port
selection is pretty standard for this
price you're getting three USB A's in 1
use PC not Thunderbolt 3 though I like
the screen it's not amazing it's an IPS
screen and it looks not bad I mean it's
a $900 gaming laptop you're not gonna
get 4k color accurate screens at this
price so yeah I'm happy with the screen
the keyboard and the trackpad are also
both good the keyboard is comfortable to
use nice layout the one thing that's a
little bit weird on the layout is that
the shift and the up arrow are really
close together now I personally didn't
have any issues using it but I think
it'll depend on how your keyboard habits
are if you don't know if you hit your
shift in a particular way you might hit
the upper at the same time but I don't
have any issues trackpad is also really
good Windows precision drivers acer has
totally gone into the whole windows
precision driver thing they don't use
anymore
ilan or synaptic drivers from what I've
seen recently so that's really nice the
speakers are located on the bottom and
they don't sound terrible or anything
they don't sound great but it's a $900
gaming laptop they kind of sound as you
would expect the build quality in the
Nitro 5 is good it's got a metal top
panel but everything else is plastic
including the bottom panel but all the
plastic parts feel good
there's
access to the two-and-a-half inch SATA
drive and the RAM slots through some
hatches but if you want to go deeper you
can remove the whole panel the batteries
down here it's a 48 watt hour battery
and I'm getting a little bit less than
four hours of battery life and that's
what the screen at 215 it's so depending
what you do you'll be around there now
so far everything sounds good right
everything seems proper on this laptop
but this is my one issue with this thing
the thermal design is not ideal so if
you look over here you can see the CPU
and the GPU and there's two heat pipes
that pull heat away from these chips
which are cooled with these two fans and
I don't like seeing game laptops
designed like this so on a regular
laptop that doesn't have a ton of
thermal output this is fine because I
mean it's a very effective and space
efficient way of cooling things down but
on a gaming laptop with the gtx 750ti
this is not ideal and what ends up
happening is that the heat from the CPU
has to travel along this pipe pass the
GPU before we get cooled by the two fans
and if you use your laptop for a really
long time the CPU builds up heat now the
VX 15 is another inexpensive laptop from
Acer and that thing has a much better
thermal design to me there's still two
heat pipes and two fans but because the
two fans are located on opposite ends
each fan is going to pull heat more
readily from the closer chip and you
just get better thermal performance now
if all you're doing is just browsing the
web or just doing light stuff or even
playing games for just really short
bursts for like 15-20 minutes then you
literally will never notice it you will
not see any kind of thermal issues but
if you play games for a long time like
over an hour you'll notice that the CPU
temperature starts to creep up and up
and eventually you'll hit that wall the
one thermal advantage that I would say
the Nitro 5 has is that does have cool
boost technology which is basically
built-in software to allow you to
control the fans now the VX 15 does not
have that this does and it can be
helpful the thing is you can always get
like third-party software to control the
fans but this has it straight from the
factory so the fan is on this thing at
idle is not very loud it's actually
quite quiet onload it's a little bit
louder audible but not too bad
but with cool boost on this thing is
quite loud and it's still not good
enough to maintain really high clock
speeds for extended periods of time
despite it being super loud
here's the thing for $900 the market is
very competitive right now there's a lot
of good options to choose from the VIX
15 the Dell seven five six seven the
upcoming seven five seven seven this
thing the Nitro five they're all like
kind of in that market so if you're
going to make a laptop that competes
with this stuff if you're gonna spend
the time and the resources like acer did
to make the Nitro 5 a brand new laptop
why like why not make it something just
more different there's nothing about
this thing that makes it a compelling
purchase okay I take that back there's
two things that are unique about this
that don't matter to me but I to be fair
I need to just kind of put this out
there for full disclosure this thing has
a design like a visual design that's
better than the other laptops that it
competes with the red isn't super
obnoxious and the rest of it is pretty
simple the screen is also ever so
slightly better than the V x-15 and the
Dell seven five six seven screen they're
all IPs but this one's just a little bit
brighter a little bit more color
accurate we're talking like two or three
percent so if those things are important
to you and you don't mind the thermal
issues sure go for this thing but for
most people I wouldn't recommend this
the Acer VX 15 is just better all-round
okay hope you guys enjoyed this video
thumbs be liked it subs we loved it see
you guys next time
[Music]